2.6 blog post (#12412)
prettier/prettier: website/blog/2022-03-13-2.6.0.md

    default: // expression;
      return ExpressionStatement.read();
  }
}
```

#### Fix misplaced argument comment in abstract methods ([#12185](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12185) by [@duailibe](https://github.com/duailibe))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```ts
// Input
abstract class Foo {
  abstract bar(
    /** comment explaining userId param */
    userId
  )
}

// Prettier 2.5
abstract class Foo {
  abstract bar(userId);
  /** comment explaining userId param */
}

// Prettier 2.6
abstract class Foo {
  abstract bar(
    /** comment explaining userId param */
    userId
  );
}
```

#### Fix typecast of superclass in class declarations ([#12222](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12222) & [#12226](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12226) by [@duailibe](https://github.com/duailibe))

This was a combination of two separate bugs: moving the comments before the superclass and adding multiple parenthesis around the superclass.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```js
// Input
class Foo extends /** @type {Type} */ (Bar) {}

// Prettier 2.5
class Foo /** @type {Type} */ extends ((Bar)) {}

// Prettier 2.6
class Foo extends /** @type {Type} */ (Bar) {}
```

> #### Support Unicode Set Notation proposal ([#12241](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12241) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add support for Unicode Set Notation in regular expressions ([#12241](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12241) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))
```

> Support [Stage 3 proposal Unicode Set Notation](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation/) via [Babel 7.17.0](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Stage 3 proposal for [Unicode Set Notation](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation/) in regular expressions is now supported via [Babel 7.17.0](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0).
```

> See [the release blog post of Babel v7.17.0](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0#regexp-set-notation-and-properties-of-strings-14125httpsgithubcombabelbabelpull14125) and [the README of this proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation/) for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
See [the release blog post of Babel v7.17.0](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0#regexp-set-notation-and-properties-of-strings-14125httpsgithubcombabelbabelpull14125) and [the README of this proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-regexp-set-notation/) for details. Also keep in mind our [policy on non-standardized syntax](https://prettier.io/docs/en/rationale.html#disclaimer-about-non-standard-syntax) before using this proposed syntax feature with Prettier.
```

"Did you see the 👩🏿‍❤️‍💋‍👩🏾 emoji?".match(/\p{RGI_Emoji}/v). // ["👩🏿‍❤️‍💋‍👩🏾"]

/[\r\n\q{\r\n|NEWLINE}]/v; // Matches \r, \n, \r\n or NEWLINE
```

#### Add parens to `ClassExpression` with decorators ([#12260](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12260) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```js
// Input
(@f() class {});

// Prettier 2.5
@f()
class {};

// Prettier 2.5 (Second format)
SyntaxError: A class name is required. (2:7)
  1 | @f()
> 2 | class {};
    |       ^
  3 |

// Prettier 2.6
(
  @f()
  class {}
);
```

#### Improve printing of comments in type aliases in Flow & TS ([#12268](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12268) by [@duailibe](https://github.com/duailibe))

For Flow, the comments will now be more aligned to how we print comments in assignments where the right-hand side is an object expression:

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```js
// Input
type Props = // comment explaining the props
  {
    isPlaying: boolean
  };

// Prettier 2.5
// comment explaining the props
type Props = {
  isPlaying: boolean,
};

// Prettier 2.6
type Props =
  // comment explaining the props
  {
    isPlaying: boolean,
  };
```

> And for TS that comment would not be stable with a second format:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change also fixes an issue where a similarly-placed comment in TypeScript would be moved again after a second formatting operation:
```

(still not 100% happy with this wording but I think it might be clearer)

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```ts
// Input
type Props = // comment explaining the props
  {
    isPlaying: boolean
  };

// Prettier 2.5
type Props = { // comment explaining the props
  isPlaying: boolean;
};

// Prettier 2.5 (2nd format)
type Props = {
  // comment explaining the props
  isPlaying: boolean;
};

// Prettier 2.6
type Props =
  // comment explaining the props
  {
    isPlaying: boolean,
  };
```

> #### Support destructuring private proposal ([#12276](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12276) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add support for destructuring of private fields ([#12276](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12276) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))
```

> Support [Stage 2 TC39 proposal destructuring private fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-destructuring-private) via [Babel 7.17](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Stage 2 TC39 proposal for [destructuring of private fields](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-destructuring-private) is now supported via [Babel 7.17](https://babeljs.io/blog/2022/02/02/7.17.0). Please read our [policy on non-standardized syntax](https://prettier.io/docs/en/rationale.html#disclaimer-about-non-standard-syntax) before you decide to use this proposed syntax feature with Prettier.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
// Example
class Foo {
  constructor() {
    console.log(this.#x); // => 1
    const { #x: x } = this;
    console.log(x); // => 1
  }
}
```

#### Support decorator auto accessors syntax ([#12299](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12299) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))

> Support auto accessors syntax that is introduced in [new decorators proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Support auto accessors syntax that is introduced in [new decorators proposal](https://github.com/tc39/proposal-decorators). Please read our [policy on non-standardized syntax](https://prettier.io/docs/en/rationale.html#disclaimer-about-non-standard-syntax) before you decide to use this proposed syntax feature with Prettier.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
// Example
@defineElement("my-class")
class C extends HTMLElement {
  @reactive accessor clicked = false;
}
```

### TypeScript

#### Refactor printing definite assignment assertions ([#12351](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12351) by [@thorn0](https://github.com/thorn0))

> Also now definite assignment assertions are printed even when they aren't followed by type annotations, which is an error in TS but not a parse error.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Definite assignment assertions are now printed even when they aren't followed by type annotations. This is an error in TypeScript, but TS is still able to parse the file.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```ts
// Input
let a!;

// Prettier 2.5
let a;

// Prettier 2.6
let a!;
```

#### Print trailing comma for rest elements in tuple types ([#12390](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12390) by [@sosukesuzuki](https://github.com/sosukesuzuki))

> TypeScript allows to put rest elements in places other than the end of tuple types since [4.2](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-4-2.html#leadingmiddle-rest-elements-in-tuple-types).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
TypeScript has allows rest elements in tuple types (`...T`) to have normal elements come after them since [TypeScript 4.2](https://www.typescriptlang.org/docs/handbook/release-notes/typescript-4-2.html#leadingmiddle-rest-elements-in-tuple-types).
```

> Prettier now prints a trailing comma for the trailing rest element as the it may be followed by the next element.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Prettier now prints a trailing comma for the trailing rest element (when trailing commas are enabled) for consistency and to reduce diffs if you decide to add more elements after the final element in the future.
```

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```tsx
// { trailingCommma: "all" }

// Input
type Foo = [
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  ...RestElement,
];

// Prettier 2.5
type Foo = [
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  ...RestElement
];

// Prettier 2.6
type Foo = [
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  Element,
  ...RestElement,
];

```

#### TypeScript 4.6 ([#12400](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12400) by [@dependabot](https://github.com/dependabot))

We've added support for [TypeScript 4.6](https://devblogs.microsoft.com/typescript/announcing-typescript-4-6/). However, there is no new syntax in this release that Prettier should support.

### Flow

#### Fix Flow's class declaration's `static` indexer formatting ([#12009](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12009) by [@gkz](https://github.com/gkz))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```jsx
// Input
declare class A {
  static [string]: boolean;
}

// Prettier 2.5
declare class A {
  [string]: boolean;
}

// Prettier 2.6
declare class A {
  static [string]: boolean;
}
```

### CSS

> #### Preserve empty line in CSS paren groups ([#12210](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12210) by [@duailibe](https://github.com/duailibe))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Preserve blank lines in SCSS maps ([#12210](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12210) by [@duailibe](https://github.com/duailibe))
```

> <!-- Optional description if it makes sense. -->

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This change also applies to some PostCSS features with similar syntax.
```

This caused Prettier to unnecessarily add backslashes every time a file was formatted.

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```hbs
{{! Input }}
<p>\</p>
<p>\\</p>
<p>\\\</p>

{{! Prettier 2.5 }}
<p>\\</p>
<p>\\\</p>
<p>\\\\</p>

{{! Prettier 2.6 }}
<p>\</p>
<p>\\</p>
<p>\\\</p>
```

### GraphQL

#### Print descriptions on graphql schema definition nodes ([#11901](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/11901) by [@trevor-scheer](https://github.com/trevor-scheer))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```graphql
# Input
"""SchemaDefinition description is lost"""
schema {
  query: Query
}

# Prettier 2.5
schema {
  query: Query
}

# Prettier 2.6
"""
SchemaDefinition description is lost
"""
schema {
  query: Query
}

```

### YAML

#### Fix unexpected deletion of block-literal lines which starts with U+3000 ([#12305](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/12305) by [@Quramy](https://github.com/Quramy))

<!-- prettier-ignore -->
```yaml
# Input 
block_with_ideographic_space: |
  　line-content # This line starts with U+3000

# Prettier 2.5
block_with_ideographic_space: |

// Prettier 2.6
block_with_ideographic_space: |
  　line-content # This line starts with U+3000
```

### CLI

> #### Add `--no-plugin-search` to turn off plugin autoloading ([#10274](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/10274) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Add `--no-plugin-search` option to turn off plugin autoloading ([#10274](https://github.com/prettier/prettier/pull/10274) by [@fisker](https://github.com/fisker))
```

We've also added support formatting for some new JavaScript syntax proposals via Babel.

If you enjoy Prettier and would like to support our work, consider sponsoring us directly via [our OpenCollective](https://opencollective.com/prettier) or by sponsoring the projects we depend on, including [typescript-eslint](https://opencollective.com/typescript-eslint), [remark](https://opencollective.com/unified), and [Babel](https://opencollective.com/babel).

> Please see our previously posted blog [Prettier begins paying maintainers](https://prettier.io/blog/2022/01/06/prettier-begins-paying-maintainers.html) on how we use our funds.

Reviewer 2: Can we mention some company/org like LINE, Ubie, etc who donate to us since `v2.5` release?
